Well, first thing we have got to do, whether or not I’m president, is to shut this president up right now, because he is undermining the doctors and the scientists who are trying to help the American people. It is unacceptable for him to be blabbering with unfactual information which is confusing the general public. Second of all, what we need to do, and I’m glad that he has called a state of national emergency. What we have got to do is move aggressively to make sure that every person in this country finally understands that when they get sick with the coronavirus that all payments will be made, that they don’t have to worry about coming up with money for testing. They don’t have to worry about coming up with money for treatment. This is an unprecedented moment in American history. Now, I obviously believe in Medicare for all. I will fight for that as president, but right now in this emergency, I want every person in this country to understand that when you get sick, you go to the doctor. When you get sick, if you have the virus, that will be paid for. Do not worry about the cost right now, because we’re in the middle of a national emergency. Second of all, we have to make sure that our hospitals have the ventilators that they need, have the IC units that they need. Right now, we have a lack of medical personnel, and I worry very much that if there is a peak, whether we have the capability of dealing with the hundreds of thousands of people who may be in hospitals, so we need unprecedented action right now to deal with the unprecedented crisis. Bottom line from an economic point of view, what we have got to say to the American people, if you lose your job, you will be made whole. You’re not going to lose income. If Trump can put, or the fed can put a trillion and a half into the banking system we can protect the wages of every worker in America. Jake, let’s be honest and understand that this coronavirus pandemic exposes the incredible weakness and dysfunctionality of our current healthcare system. Now, we’re spending twice as much per person on healthcare as the people of any other country. How in God’s name does it happen that we end up with 87 million people who are uninsured or underinsured and there are people who are watching this program tonight, and say, “I’m not feeling well. Should I go to the doctor? But I can’t afford to go to the doctor. What happens if I am sick? It’s going to cost thousands of dollars for treatment. Who’s going to feed my kids?” We are the only major country on earth not to guarantee healthcare to all people. We’re spending so much money, and yet we are not even prepared for this pandemic. How come we don’t have enough doctors? How come hospitals in rural areas are shutting down? How come people can’t afford to get the prescription drugs they need, because we have a bunch of crooks who are running the pharmaceutical industry, ripping us off every single day, and I’ll tell you something right now, in the midst of this epidemic, you’ve got people in the pharmaceutical industry who are saying, “Oh wow, what an opportunity to make a fortune.” So the word has got to go out. I certainly would do this as president. You don’t worry, people of America, do not worry about the cost of prescription drugs. Do not worry about the cost of the healthcare that you’re going to get, because we are a nation, a civilized democratic society. Everybody, rich and poor, middle-class, will get the care they need. The drug companies will not rip us off. Well, first of all, the dysfunctionality of the current healthcare system is obviously apparent. As I said earlier, there are people who hesitate go to the doctor. You’re going to have the maze of regulations. Well, if this is my income, but that’s my income, can I get it? Can I not get it? Clearly we are not prepared, and Trump only exacerbates the crisis. When we spend twice as much per capita on healthcare as any other nation, one might expect that we would have enough doctors all over this country. One might expect that we would have affordable prescription drugs. One might expect that we were preparing effectively for a pandemic, that we were ready with the ventilators, with the ICUs, with the test kits that we need. We are not, and bottom line here is in terms of Medicare for all, despite what the vice president is saying, what the experts tell us, is that one of the reasons that we are unprepared and have been unprepared is we don’t have a system. We got thousands of private insurance plans. That is not a system that is prepared to provide healthcare to all people. In a good year without the epidemic, we’re losing up to 60,000 people who die every year because they don’t get to a doctor on time. It’s clearly this crisis is only making a bad situation worse. That’s not true. As a matter of fact, that’s not true. That law has enormous loopholes. I understand that Nancy Pelosi did her best. Republicans prevented it. What you’re- What you’re talking about, Joe, here, is enormous loopholes within that, that in fact it is not necessarily covering treatment for all people in America, and that people are going to be stuck with a bill unless we change that, and we’re going to offer legislation to in fact change that. But the weakness of this is, let’s just do a hypothetical. A family member’s diagnosed with the virus. Terrible tragedy, massive anxiety. The wife has the virus. The husband is a wreck, wants to go to a psychologist, wants to get counseling, doesn’t have the money to do that. Maybe their kid breaks a leg. They don’t have the money to go to healthcare. So you’re saying right now in the middle of a crisis, but you know what? Last year at least 30,000 people died in America because they didn’t get healthcare when they should, because we don’t have universal coverage. I think that’s a crisis. One out of five people in America cannot afford the prescription drugs they need. They suffer. Some die. I consider that a crisis. Bottom line is we need a simple system, which exists in Canada, exists in countries all over the world, and that is if you are an American, you get the healthcare you need, end of discussion. We can save huge sums of money doing that. The trick is, do we have the guts to take on the healthcare industry, some of which is funding the vice president’s campaign. Do we have the courage to take on the executives at the prescription drug industry some of whom are funding his campaign. Well, I think we use all of the tools that make sense. If using the National Guard, which is, folks I think in New York state are already using the National Guard, that is something that has to be done. This is clearly, as the vice president indicated, a national emergency. What I worry about is not only how we respond aggressively to the virus, but also how we respond aggressively to the economic fallout of a global recession. Right now in Illinois and Ohio, if my memory is correct, the governor there has said they’re closing down bars. They’re closing down restaurants. What happens to the workers who are there? What happens to the millions of workers who may end up losing their jobs? What I think we have got to do right now is if Trump can provide, or the fed can provide a trillion and a half for liquidity for the banks, what we’ve got to say to every worker in America, you know what? Don’t panic. You’re not going to … You’ll be able to pay your mortgage, because you’re going to get a check. Well, the Ebola crisis is one thing. This is obviously a pandemic which is far more severe and impactful to this country. I think one of the things that we want to remember here is that we got a lot of elderly people in this country who are told, stay home. Don’t leave your house. Who’s going to get food to them? How do we get food to them? You’ve got schools all over this country now being shut down. Okay. How are we going to make sure that the kids do well in this crisis, not become traumatized? What do we do about the parents now who have to stay home with the kids and can’t go to work? I think what bottom line here is that in this crisis, we have got to start paying attention to the most vulnerable, that includes people who are in prison right now, people who are in homeless shelters right now. What about the half a million people who are homeless tonight? Who’s going to respond to them? Now, in 2008 when we had the Wall Street bailout, they did very well for the people on top. They bailed out the crooks on Wall Street, but they forgot about the suffering of ordinary Americans. This time around, let us learn that lesson. Let us pay attention to the working families in this country. Well, one of the consequences is we have got to learn that you cannot lie to the American people. You cannot be less than frank about the nature of the crisis. And what bothers me very much is you have a president of the United States today, Mr. Trump, who was praising China, for the good work that they are doing, when in fact, as you indicated, they were lying to their own people and allowing that [inaudible 00:21:02] the case. Look, I don’t think this is the time for recrimination, to be punishing people. Now is the time, by the way, to be working with China. They are learning a lot about this crisis, and in fact, we have got to work with them. We’ve got to work with the World Health Organization. We’ve got to work with Italy. We’ve got to work with countries around the world. If there was ever a moment when the entire world is in this together, got to support each other, this is that moment. Well, the bottom line here is that in the midst of this crisis, we have got to act in an unprecedented way. And that means every country on earth is going to be affected. Every country on earth has got to work together. It also means that we tell the pharmaceutical industry, we tell the big money interests, that this is not a time for profiteering. This is a time for all of us working together. The World Health Organization is a very, very strong organization. It is sad that we have a President that has ignored the international community in so many ways, including in terms of international health crisis. The Ebola crisis, in my view, exposes the dysfunctionality of our healthcare system and how poorly prepared we are, despite how much money that we spent. The Ebola crisis is also, I think, exposing the cruelty and the unjustness of our economy today. We have more income and wealth inequality in America today than any time in 100 years. And what that means then, in the midst of this crisis… You know, if you’re a multimillionaire, no one’s happy about this crisis. You’re going to get through it. You’re going to get everything you need. You’re not worried about healthcare. You’re not worried about income coming in. Half of our people are living paycheck to paycheck. We got people who are struggling working two or three jobs to put food on the table. What is going to happen to them? So the lesson to be learned is we have got to move aggressively right now to address the economic crisis as a result of Ebola… Keep talking about Ebola. You got Ebola in my head here right now. As a result of the virus here, the Coronavirus. What we have got to do also is understand the fragility of the economy and how unjust and unfair it is that so few have so much and so many have so little. Well, I think it goes without saying that as a nation we have to respond as forcefully as we can to the current crisis, but it is not good enough not to be understanding how we got here and where we want to go into the future. So how does it happen that today, in the wealthiest country in the history of the world, half of our people are scared to death? Good. I agree. In fact, that was my idea originally to make sure that every person in this country is made whole as a result of this crisis. But God willing, this crisis is going to end, and we are going to have to develop an economy in which half of our people are not living paycheck to paycheck and struggling to put food on the table. I But to answer your question where we are right now, we need to stabilize the economy, but we can’t repeat what we did in 2008. Joe voted for that. I voted against it. Because we have got to do more than save the banks or the oil companies. Our job right now is to tell every working person in this country, no matter what your income is, you are not going to suffer as a result of this crisis of which you had no control. did. You’re quite right, I voted against the bailout because I believed that the illegal behavior being done by the people on Wall Street should not be rewarded by a bailout. And today, by the way, those banks are more prosperous and own more assets, by and large, than they did back then. They’re bigger now than they were then. I thought at the time that in the midst of massive income and wealth inequality, the people on top… there was surtax on the very wealthy… should bail out. And it’s not just the top bailout. We gave trillions of dollars in zero interest loans to large banks. No. I did not vote against that. That bailout money was used later on by Bush to protect the automobile industry. Here’s the point here, is that in terms of that bailout, there are ways that you can bail out. When you have a handful of people who have incredible wealth, who have prospered off of the illegal behavior of individuals, in this case on Wall Street, you know what you say to them? And I did. I said this to the Secretary of the Treasury, “You want a bailout? That’s fine. You have your friends pay for it, not working people.” The other point is, as Joe should know, it wasn’t just the 700 billion TARP program. The fed gave trillions and trillions of dollars in zero interest loans to every financial institution in this country and central banks all over the world. That was essentially a grant, because they then could sell that. They can then bring in interest rates much greater than the zero interest loans that they got. I have been criticized because the proposal for Medicare for All that I introduced includes making sure that undocumented people are also covered. And right now, we have the absurd situation where undocumented people who try to do the right thing, they’re sick, they want to go to the doctor, they don’t want to spread this disease, are now standing and thinking about whether ICE is going to deport them. So one of the things that we have to do is to make sure that everybody feels comfortable getting the healthcare that they need. That should be a general principle, above and beyond the Coronavirus. Second of all, we’ve got to end these terrible ICE raids which are terrorizing communities all over this country. And thirdly, to answer your question, the time is long overdue for this country to move to comprehensive immigration reform and a path towards citizenship for those 11 million undocumented. And furthermore, on day one as President, I would restore the legal status of the 1.8 million young people Well, a great deal. I mean, last night we had a fireside chat, not a rally. I love doing rallies and we bring many thousands of people out to our rallies. I enjoy it very much. We’re not doing that right now. In fact, our entire staff is working from home. So on a personal level, what we’re doing is, I’m not shaking hands. Joe and I did not shake hands. I am very careful about the people I am interacting with. I’m using a lot of soap and hand sanitizers to make sure that I do not get the infection. And I have to say, thank God, right now I do not have any symptoms and I feel very grateful for that. Look, let’s do something that is very rarely done in the Congress. Let’s do something that the media does. Let’s talk about the reality of American life. Why is it that over the last 45 years, despite the huge increase in productivity and technology, the average worker today’s making a nickel more in real dollars? Why is it that over the last 30 years, the richest 1% have seen a $21 trillion increase in their wealth, bottom half of America, $900 billion decline in their wealth? The bottom half of America, $900 billion decline in their wealth. Why is it that we are the only major country on Earth not to guarantee healthcare to all people as a human right? Why are we the only major country not to have paid medical and family leave? Why do we give tax breaks to billionaires, when a half-a-million people are homeless today? And it comes down to something, Jake, we don’t talk about. The power structure in America, who has the power? I’ll tell you who has the power. It’s the people who contribute money. The billionaires who contribute money to political campaigns, who control the legislative agenda. Those people have the power. If you want to make real changes in this country, if you want to create an economy that works for all, not just the few… if you want to guarantee quality healthcare to all, not make $100 billion in profit for the healthcare industry, you know what you need? You need to take on Wall Street. You need to take on the drug companies, and the insurance companies, and the fossil fuel industry. You don’t take campaign contributions from them. You take them on and create an economy that works for all. Time and time again talking about the necessity, with pride, about cutting Social Security, cutting Medicare, cutting veterans programs. All right. America, go to the website right now. Go to the YouTube right now. Time after time, you were not a fan of Bowles-Simpson. Joe, you just contradicted yourself. One minute… Excuse me. One minute you said, “I was not on the floor.” The next minute you say, “Well yes, there was a reason why I was worried about the deficit.” Maybe that’s good reason, maybe it’s not. All that I am saying is you were prepared to cut, and advocated for the cuts of programs. Incremental adjustments are what I advocated. Adjustments that I advocated and have advocated for years, is among other things, increasing the cost of living assistance. No, you’re not going to find me ever calling for cuts to Social Security. Right now for example, we determine COLAs by looking at inflation for the general population rather than segregating the higher costs that seniors are paying for prescription drugs and for healthcare. That’s what I was talking about. I have in fact, when Joe and others were enamored with the so-called Bowles-Simpson effort, which included cuts to Social Security or raising the retirement age. I formed along with people like Barbara Boxer, the defending Social Security caucus to say no… when 20% of our seniors who are trying to get by on $13,000 a year or more, we are not going to cut Social Security. Look, this is a little bit about leadership as well. Joe talked about bankruptcy. Joe, if my memory is correct, you helped write that Bankruptcy Bill. Overwhelmingly. Well, I voted against it in the House, and I was right. I don’t have to rethink my position, because that’s what leadership is about. Having the guts to take an unpopular vote. But it’s not just bankruptcy. The difference between Joe and I on higher education is… four years ago, it was not a popular idea, Joe. Glad you’re coming around now. Four years ago, when I said that public colleges and universities should be tuition free, people were saying, “Bernie, that’s a radical idea.” Well, you got states and cities and counties all over the country that are moving in that direction. I’m glad that Joe was on board. But what leadership is about, is going forward when it’s not popular, when it’s an idea that you get criticized for. So I’m proud of that fact, and I’m proud of my leadership on many issues. Joe, since the campaign, has come around. I talked about raising that minimum wage 15-bucks-an-hour, four years ago, Joe.